[THEME MUSIC]
SPEAKER 1: Mocha, QUnit,
Jasmine, Chai, Proxyquire,
Sinon.
SPEAKER 2: See, some people say
that we have too [INAUDIBLE]
in the JavaScript community.
I don't know what
they're talking about.
SPEAKER 1: No, neither do I.
SPEAKER 2: I really don't.
So let's see, we have
QUnit back in 2008.
It was pretty popular.
SPEAKER 1: Yup, that's the one--
SPEAKER 2: People still use it.
SPEAKER 1: That's the one
that runs in the browser.
Yup.
SPEAKER 2: It was popularized,
I think, by the Query Project.
Ran well in CI.
Didn't have amazing support
for async testing back then
or headless testing support.
SPEAKER 1: Yup.
SPEAKER 2: Then we had Jasmine--
SPEAKER 2: Come after that.
SPEAKER 1: It looks super
similar to Mocha, that one.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Required you using
Karma or Jasmine
node for your test runner.
Had a headless testing
set up out of the box,
lots of CI support, BDD.
SPEAKER 1: Nice.
SPEAKER 2: Then you
had Mocha, which
you wanted to talk about today.
SPEAKER 1: So Mocha's like--
so the main reason I like it,
you can run it in node,
you can run in the window,
you can run it in a worker.
Which at the moment, I'm
doing a ton of stuff testing
across browsers, which
helps with nodes.
A ton of stuff where I'm
testing my caches in the window,
and then service workers,
which are workers.
So having Mocha run in all three
things is, like, super nice.
Basically, the way
it works is you just
call Describe Function, parse
on a string, and a call back.
String defies the
test suite, and then
the call back is just the thing
that gets called by Mocha.
And then you start
running your tests.
SPEAKER 2: Sure.
SPEAKER 1: So a single
test is basically
called IPP, parse a
string of describing what
the single tests should do.
And then another call back
which is like your actual test.
You do certain things.
And then you'd use, like,
an assertion library
to then basically
say, this is the thing
that I expect to happen.
Make sure that this is it.
SPEAKER 2: And Mocha's got
like async testing helpers
like done.
But you don't have to use them.
SPEAKER 1: No, so you can pass
[INAUDIBLE] to your call back.
And when you call it, that's
basically telling Mocha, hey,
I finished the test.
Move on to the next one.
But you can also just
execute like synchronous code
and it will just figure it out.
Or if you return
a promise, it'll
figure out what to
do based off of that.
SPEAKER 2: Cool.
SPEAKER 1: Normally
what you'll end up
seeing is people using it with
a thing called Chai, which
is an assertion library, which
basically, Chai has two modes.
You either use Expect
or you use Should.
And the difference is meant to
be the kind of testing you do.
I don't know enough about
that to really comment on it.
Generally, I use a thing
called Should from Chai.
And basically what
that means is,
whenever you get a value
from a function or something,
Should Like adds a ton of
stuff to the prototype.
So in the stupid example
of 2 plus 2 equals 4,
you do 2 plus 2.
You get a value.
And then you go Value.should.=4
And that's basically
the assertion bit.
Because if value
doesn't equal four,
then the whole test will
fail, and then Mocha will go,
ooh, it doesn't make sense.
You're stupid.
SPEAKER 2: So Mocha,
Chai, Jasmine.
It sounds like you
need a lot of caffeine
to make it in this industry.
SPEAKER 1: Yes.
SPEAKER 2: I kind of want
us to do our own test runner
and just call it
like tripleventihalfs
weetcarmelmacchiatio.js.
SPEAKER 1: You nearly
messed that up.
SPEAKER 2: I nearly did.
SPEAKER 1: But you pulled
it off, so well done.
SPEAKER 2: I did.
I did.
I feel good.
I feel good about that.
I want to get the top of
Hacker News without-- be great.
Be great.
SPEAKER 1: Just the fact
that you said that statement,
means you're going to
get down voted heavily.
SPEAKER 2: Most likely.
But you're assuming anyone
actually watches this show.
SPEAKER 1: That's also true.
SPEAKER 2: So Frameworks
generally uses--they use some
of the tools that we
talked about just now.
So like-- and some don't.
Ember people, I think, still
use Ember QUnit kind of stuff.
SPEAKER 1: Do these like
just have helpers around?
SPEAKER 2: I think it's just
helpers around it mostly.
And the Angular
team for Angular 2,
I believe they're still
using like, Jasmine and Karma
for their stuff.
And then Palmer, we're
using Mocha and Chai still
with web component tester.
SPEAKER 1: Yup.
SPEAKER 2: So on the whole,
it's not entirely all crazy.
SPEAKER 1: And then there's
the Disney one, the Eva.
SPEAKER 2: Eva.
Eva is like a
concurrent [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 1: So that-- I think
that's the nice thing about Eva
is the clear like
selling point there,
is the fact that it will run
multiple tests simultaneously.
I was actually going
to try that out.
But I had enough problems
with service workers
that I wanted it
to do bit by bit.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
SPEAKER 1: But I
am hoping that I
can kind of switch to Eva
as soon as it kind of gets
browser support.
SPEAKER 2: It's got
a beautiful logo.
But like, Eva's-- Eva's also
good for when you're working
with tests that are
particularly I/O heavy.
It just deals really
well with those.
SPEAKER 1: Nice.
SPEAKER 2: But yeah,
we've probably not
covered all of the test runners
and libraries ever created
in the JavaScript community.
23 more have probably
been invented
while we've been shooting.
SPEAKER 1: Just make
sure you use one of them.